# cct-midterm
For this assignment, I used a cultural consenses theory model using PyMC to analyze shared plant knowledge. I used a Beta(2,1) prior for informant competence (Dᵢ) becuase the Beta distribution naturally bounds probabilities between 0 and 1, the α=2, β=1 parameters reflect our sense that the majority of informants know more than half the answers (mean = 2/3) with some fluctuation, and becasue scaling to [0.5,1] gives a reasonable prior in which minimum competence is chance-level (0.5) and optimal is perfect knowledge (1.0). For agreement responses (Zⱼ), I used uninformative Bernoulli(0.5) priors, each assigning an equal prior probability to every answer. The model computes response probabilities as a combination of these factors - if the answer of an informant matches the consensus, it gets weighted by their competence; incompatibilities are weighted by 1-competence.

The convergence of analysis was really good (all R-hats < 1.05) on 4 chains of MCMC. Estimated competences ranged from 0.69 to 0.87 (mean = 0.79), confirming that all informants performed much better than chance. Surprisingly, consensus answers concurred with simple majority votes on every question, likely because the simulated data did not contain cases where less competent informants strongly agreed in opposition to more competent ones. This shows how CCT's competence-weighting is most useful where there is conflict between more and less reliable informants - one of the fundamental advantages over majority voting that was not evident in this particular dataset but would be with more complex response patterns.
